BEST CHRISTOPHER NOLAN MOVIES RANKED
The Best Christopher Nolan Movies
Christopher Nolan movies are great for filmmakers to study because he is one of the few directors who understand both how to craft a compelling story, and then support that story through very precise cinematic techniques.

Which Christopher Nolan movies do this the best?  

CHRIS NOLAN FILMS
11. Following (1998)
Christopher Nolan’s first feature film is a 69 minute Film Noir suspense thriller. The film was predominantly hand-held, shot on an Arri BL and a Bolex (both 16MM) and the entire movie is in black and white.

The film was made in 15-minute stints over the course of a year due to Nolan’s financial and production constraints. And you see early signs of Christopher Nolan’s directing style and cinematic values in this film.


Christopher Nolan All Movies Ranked  •  Following (1998)
The story is great, and the chief reason the film lands at the end of our Christopher Nolan movies list is purely the technical quality. Nolan was just getting started and his directing style was just maturing.

Some of these cinematic techniques used by Nolan include extreme close-ups of insert shots, cross cutting scenes, and a non-linear story structure. 

I highly recommend it.
10. Tenet (2020)
With Tenet, Christopher Nolan took a huge swing. In fact, most would agree this was his biggest swing yet and we can't help but applaud him for doing so. Much respect also given to Warner Bros. for allowing an auteur like Nolan to continue making massive tentpoles with original content. However, if we can conclude our baseball analogy, despite the monstrous swing, it did not connect.

Since Day One, Nolan movies have been pushing the boundaries of how intellectually challenging blockbusters can be. In this case, we apparently found the breaking point. Tenet is basically unintelligible — from the headache-inducing plot to the sound mixing that made the dialogue in certain scenes impossible to hear.

That being said, just because Tenet is hard to understand, it is still fun to watch. The cinematography is moody yet precise, the forward/reverse action sequences are surely impressive, and the score by Ludwig Göransson is an absolute banger. It will be interesting to see how Nolan returns from this one. His batting average (here we go again) is still unbelievably high, especially working at the peak of the Studio System. Everybody strikes out sometimes.


